# Project-three-Combined-roguelike-and-map-generation

The third project started out as a combination of two different tutorials and then expanded a bit with some feature creep that necessitated a third tutorial and some headaches.

Note: some files on here are completely unchanged from the tutorial but i will note that in the files themselves

The first part of the project came from a tutorial for a roguelike zombie survival game. The was turned based on a 12x8 grid. 

https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/2d-roguelike-tutorial


After finishing that tutorial and wondering how to expand on it i found another tutorial on cave generation using cellular automata and decided to combine the two.

https://unity3d.com/learn/tutorials/projects/procedural-cave-generation-tutorial

After successfully combining the two tutorials i decided to make the game more like a proper rogue like with multiple rooms. I created a method that would generate different sized rooms and stitch them together. I also optimised it to only spawn walls that were touching walkable space removing excess tiles from being generated by the game.


I soon came across a problem, movement. Being able to move one tile at a time is fine on an 12x8 grid. But becomes tedious and boring on one as large as 50x50.

I changed movement to be continuous for the player but always ended perfectly centered on a tile, however i ran into a problem with the computer controlled enemies. Their AI was pretty simple and still based moving one tile at a time. Luckily i found another tutorial from the same person who did the random cave generation on A* path finding.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-L-WgKMFuhE&list=PLFt_AvWsXl0cq5Umv3pMC9SPnKjfp9eGW

I initially incorporated his pathfinding in my room generation code. After a room is generated but before it is spawned i find the paths for each entrance to each other entrance, while not repeating any that have already created, and save them for future reference. When finding a path from one point to another i first generate a list of rooms that need to be traveled through then pull the paths that need to be followed. The only addition pathfinding that needs to be done are in the initial and final rooms.

Using the a* method however came with a complication. It allows travel on a diagonal axis while the project i was working on did not. My first attempts at changing the A* method itself did not work to my satisfaction. Instead i would let the A* method work as it was intended and then straighten out the diagonals afterwards. Now enemies will roam around the map until they get close enough to the player and then chase him around.

Future Plans /features:
	Key Items needed to unlock the exit
	Weapons so the player can defend themselves
	A minimap because it is too easy to get lost
